alright so several months ago we took a
deep dive and learn exactly how bird
wings work and it was pretty cool so go
check it out if you want but a couple of
you had the audacity to ask me how bat
wings work and I didn't know the answer
so you hear that behind me right it's a
waterfall it's called blowing wind cave
and there are thousands of bats overhead
right now flying to the river to eat for
the night you see those little dots
they're all bats all of them it's pretty
crazy isn't it so here's the deal I'm
going to send you to the Peruvian Amazon
rainforest with ignorant Destin from
several months ago and a phantom
high-speed camera so go make
observations and when you get back me
and you were going to talk about bat
wing biomechanics by looking at data
from Brown University's bat wing wind
tunnel it's amazing I'll see you on the
flip side this is worth your time I'm
going to the cave so bats Amazon
rainforest they live everywhere they
live in the top of hollow trees like
this one which I can understand because
right now I'm about oh I don't know 30
40 feet off the ground this Phil though
what kind of tree are we in we are in a
strangler fig which means that basically
that things start off as a vine and then
strangled the tree that used to live in
this hollow space here I'll hand this
off to you cool there's some high-speed
video we're gonna shoot a bats that live
near a lake nearby so we're gonna check
that out right now let's try get video
this gets smarter every day Sam oh yeah
nice there he is you don't like me being
here do you oh man mmm Joker just peed
in my mouth stop I need to clarify that
was a lie the bat didn't actually poop
in my mouth he pooped towards my mouth
and it was deflected by my moustache and
then it hit me on the mole here so good
thing I had a moustache that's cool our
god juicing grew up in the area so he
did the exact log that max liked the
Hangout
so that's where the bad is
you
so how do bats fly differently than
birds that's the question I want to
answer here so when I started
researching the topic several papers led
me to the real-life dynamic duo dr. Ken
Brewer who's an engineer and dr. Sherin
sorts is a biologist they worked
together at Brown University's School of
Engineering animal flight wind tunnel to
unravel the mysteries of bat flight and
most people's knowledge of how bats fly
stops at echolocation but I want to go
much further than that if you look back
at the high-speed you'll notice that
when the bat strikes the other bat in
the head his entire body starts to roll
to one side now at first blush it looks
like he might be countering the
aerodynamic lift of that open wing by
rolling his body but if you look at this
footage that I captured of my cause you
can see when one of the McCall's strikes
another one in the head he doesn't roll
his body like the bat does now what's
the difference in the bat and the McCall
the answer is mass bats have 12 to 20%
of their entire body weight in each one
of their wings
this means that inertial forces play a
much bigger role in bat flight than I do
in bird flight because birds are much
lower than that if you think about it
the ability to react against their own
wing mass allows bats to do maneuvers
that birds can for example go from full
speed flight to an upside down in
sideways twists in order to gently grab
the top of a cave
don't let this freak you out there's
this place I like to go where owls will
drop their prey and they decompose
what's so cool about that is the soft
tissue will decompose in the same
position as it usually is relative to
the bones now on this duct that means we
can check out the wing structure really
well look at this you can see the major
bones here but I think is cool as you
can see that there's no bones that go
down into the wing bats have an entire
hand built into the wing that means bat
is a lot more precision control over the
shape of the wing relative to a bird who
basically just has a few major joints
and the ability to pitch each individual
feather so when you use a wind tunnel
typically you put a model right in the
middle and then you'll measure the
airflow over the surfaces the model but
what do you do if your model is actually
bad and it can fly wherever it wants how
do you know where to measure well the
answer is you put dots on the model or
in this case a bat using multiple camera
angles and a little math researchers
track the position of each individual
dot and can recreate a simulation of how
the finger joints in the wing open and
close the wing this doesn't answer our
airflow question though
that's right
particle image velocimetry is a pretty
interesting way of measuring a flow
field so right now it's springtime in
Alabama and there's pollen all over my
driveway so as my son pours this water
out if you look you can see this pollen
moving along with the water it's pretty
awesome because it lets you see things
in the flow that you couldn't see before
like this little vortex this is exactly
what the researchers are doing with the
bats
they put particles in the wind tunnel
and then they illuminate the particles
with a laser they then take these images
and calculate the local vorticity Omega
by plugging Omega in integrating over a
defined area you can get circulation or
gamma gamma goes into one last equation
and there you have it the lift generated
by a batwing while in flight imagine how
useful this could be if you're doing
something awesome like oh I don't know
developing a robotic batwing yep that's
happening so did that answer your
question
bats have more mass in their wings so
they maneuver using inertia they're more
agile than birds they can even hover
they control their wing geometry better
so on the backstroke instead of
delaminating the wing mate umbrella fold
and slide the wing along their body heck
they even fly before they can fly
they're mammals their moms carry out
here's a question for you in the
comments some bats have tail membranes
and some don't so how do you think that
affects flight so big thanks to dr.
brewer and dr. Schwartz for letting us
use your research video I think a good
way of ending this would it be to couple
that with some music that Gordon wrote
that reminds me of Castlevania quick
warning though there's a little
nightmare fuel in this anyway I'm Destin
you get smarter every day please
subscribe
Oh
you